type http (#9713)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-ai/integrate-mcp-claude.md

<MCPOauthPreflight />

For OAuth, add dbt as a custom connector through Claude Desktop's settings. You don't need to edit `claude_desktop_config.json`.

<MCPCustomConnectorOauth />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="token" label="Token-based">

Use token-based auth when your client doesn't yet support OAuth for HTTP MCP servers, or when you need a shared or CI-style setup.

:::caution `"type": "http"` is not valid in Claude Desktop

> Claude Desktop's `claude_desktop_config.json` only supports stdio-style MCP servers (`command`, `args`, and `env`). If you paste a `"type": "http"` block (the format used in Claude Code's `.mcp.json`), Claude Desktop skips the server with a message like _"some MCP servers could not be loaded … were skipped: dbt"_. Use the `mcp-remote` proxy config below instead. `"type": "http"` is supported in [Claude Code](#code-remote).

Reviewer: removing the word 'below' as it goes against style guide and simplifies callout 
```suggestion
Claude Desktop doesn't accept `"type": "http"` in `claude_desktop_config.json`. If you paste that block (the format that works in [Claude Code](#code-remote)'s `.mcp.json`), Claude Desktop skips the server and shows a message like "some MCP servers could not be loaded."

Use the `mcp-remote` proxy config in step 2 instead. 
```
